Add threat model docs (#27)
confidential-containers/confidentialcontainers.org: content/en/docs/overview/trust-model/trust_model_personas.md

 are the only code that can operate over the data. However any vulnerabilities within this code
 are not mitigated by using confidential containers, the Cloud Native Security Whitepaper
 details Lifecycle aspects that relate to the security of the code being placed into containers
 such as Static/Dynamic Analysis, Security Tests, Code Review etc which must still be followed.

![Personas model](/persona_model.svg)

Any of these personas could attempt to perform malicious actions:

### Infrastructure Operator
This persona has privileges within the Cloud Infrastructure which includes the hardware and
firmware used to provide compute, network and storage to the Cloud Native solution.
They are responsible for availability of infrastructure used by the cloud native environment.
- Have access to the physical hardware.
- Have access to the processes involved in the deployment of compute/storage/memory used by any
  orchestration components and by the workload.
- Have control over TEE hardware availability/type.
- Responsibility for applying firmware updates to infrastructure including the TEE Technology.

> Example : Cloud Service Provider (CSP), Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Site Reliability Engineer, etc.
> (SRE)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples: Cloud Service Provider (CSP), Site Reliability Engineer (SRE), etc.
```

IaaS is  product category, not a subject

### Orchestration Operator
This persona has privileges within the Orchestration/Cluster.
They are responsible for deploying a solution into a particular cloud native environment and
managing the orchestration environment.
For managed cluster this would also include the administration of the cluster control plane.
- Control availability of service.
- Control webhooks and deployment of workloads.
- Control availability of cluster resources (data/networking/storage) and cluster
  services (Logging/Monitoring/Load Balancing) for the workloads.

> - Control the deployment of runtime artifacts initially required by the TEE during
>   initialisation.
>  These boot images once initialised will receive the workload.

Reviewer: boot images is suddenly introduced as a term.  3x "initially/ization"

```suggestion
- Control the deployment of runtime artifacts required by the TEE during
  initialisation, before hosting the confidential workload.
```

> Example : A kubernetes administrator responsible for deploying pods to a cluster and
> maintaining the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example: A Kubernetes administrator responsible for deploying pods to a cluster and
maintaining the cluster.
```

### Workload Provider
This persona designs and creates the orchestration objects comprising the solution (e.g.

> kubernetes pod descriptions etc). These objects reference containers published by Container Image Providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes Pod spec, etc.). These objects reference containers published by Container Image Providers.
```

In some cases the Workload and Container Image Providers may be the same entity.
The solution defined is intended to provide the Application or Workload which in turn provides

> value to the data owners (customers and clients).
> The workload provider and data owner could be part of same company/organisation but
> following the least privilege principle the workload provider should not be able to view or

Reviewer: If the capitalize Personas and Roles (i think we should) we should do it consistently

```suggestion
value to the Data Owners (customers and clients).
The Workload Provider and Data Owner could be part of same company/organisation but
following the least privilege principle the Workload Provider should not be able to view or
```

manipulate end user data without informed consent.
- Need to prove to customer aspects of compliance.
- Defines what the solution requires in order to run and maintain compliance (resources, utility

>   containers/services,  storage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  containers/services, storage).
```

- Chooses the method of verifying the container images (from those supported by Container Image
  Provider) and obtains artifacts needed to allow verification to be completed within
  the TEE.
- Provide the boot images initially required by the TEE during
  initialisation or designates a trusted party to do so.
- Provide the attestation verification service, or designate a trusted party to provide the
  attestation verification service.

> Example : 3rd party software vendor, cloud solution provider

Reviewer: CSP abbrev introduced above

```suggestion
Examples: 3rd party software vendors, CSP
```

independent to the workload provider (side car containers). The container image provider is expected
to use a mechanism to allow provenance of container image to be established when a
workload pulls in these images at deployment time. This can take the form of signing or encrypting
the container images.
- Builds container images.
- Owner of business logic containers. These may contain proprietary algorithms, models or secrets.
- Signs or encrypts the images.
- Defines the methods available for verifying the container images to be used.
- Publishes the signature verification key (public key).
- Provides any decryption keys through a secure channel (generally to a key management system
  controlled by a Key Broker Service).
- Provides other required verification artifacts (secure channel may be considered).
- Protects the keys used to sign or encrypt the container images.

It is recognised that hybrid options exist surrounding workload provider and container provider.
For example the workload provider may choose to protect their supply chain by
signing/encrypting their own container images after following the build patterns already
established by the container image provider.

> Example : Sidecar Container Provider

Reviewer: that doesn't seem to be a tangible example for Container Image Provider

Author: Are you looking for an adjective or description that makes this more concrete (i.e. "tangible"), e.g. "Monitoring Sidecar Container Provider"?

Reviewer: ah, what I meant is: this seems like a category that would itself need to be exemplified, i.e. I don't really know what a "(Monitoring) Sidecar Container Provider" would be. is that istio, linkerd, dockerhub or whoever owns the supplychain for a sidecar container?

Author: Oh, I see. Your examples make sense, and I can put istio here.

relationship is the Workload Provider applying Supply Chain
Security practices (as
described on Page 42 of
[Cloud Native Security Paper](https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/blob/main/security-whitepaper/v2/CNCF_cloud-native-security-whitepaper-May2022-v2.pdf)
) when considering Container
Image Providers. So the Container Image Provider must support the Workload Providers
ability to provide assurance to the Data Owner regarding integrity of the code.

With Confidential Containers we match the TEE boundary to the most restrictive boundary which is
between the Workload Provider and the Orchestration Operator.

### Orchestration Operator vs. Infrastructure Operator

Outside the TEE we distinguish between the Orchestration Operator and the Infrastructure
Operator due to nature of how they can impact the TEE and the concerns of Workload Provider and
Data Owner. Direct threats exist from the Orchestration Operator as some orchestration actions
must be permitted to cross the TEE boundary otherwise orchestration cannot occur. A key goal is to
*deprivilege orchestration* and restrict the
Orchestration Operators privileges across the boundary. However indirect threats exist

> from the Infrastructure Operator who would not be permitted to exercise orchestration APIs but

Reviewer: > Infrastructure Operator who would not be permitted to exercise orchestration APIs

is this assumption warranted? isn't the infra operator inherently privileged to access orchestration APIs? (like edit values in etcd)

Author: I think the distinction here is also weak. I wouldn't change it. If you want something else, though, I might suggest:
> However, threats exist from the Infrastructure Operator who could indirectly exercise orchestration APIs or exploit low-level hardware or firmware capabilities to access or impact the contents of a TEE.

> Orchestration Operators privileges across the boundary. However indirect threats exist
> from the Infrastructure Operator who would not be permitted to exercise orchestration APIs but
> could exploit the low level hardware or firmware capabilities to access or impact the  contents
> of a TEE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Orchestration Operators privileges across the boundary. However indirect threats exist
from the Infrastructure Operator who would not be permitted to exercise orchestration APIs but
could exploit the low-level hardware or firmware capabilities to access or impact the contents
of a TEE.
```
